And Caitlin and many other languages will have another different type of class called Enam Inam is short
for enumerated type, so an enumerated type is another word for enumerate, so to enumerate means to
list things one by one.
So in this case, here, let's go ahead and create that type class like that, and then we can give
it a name.
In this case, I'm going to use a result as the name, and we'll see later how and we'll see later why
we're using result because we are going to expand this example into other types of classes.
OK, but let's start small.
So have there.
And then we open Calabrese braces, and here is where we add that list of that list of types.
And it is customary or best practices to write all the title inside of this item class in all caps.
So success comma separating the list, if you will, and then I'm going to use.
Failure.
Error as such.
OK, so now we have our inner how do we use this, the idea really behind it in this case, is to kind
of see if we can garnish some sort of state of the program.
So we see a result.
Let's say we're using an application that goes and download things from the internet remotely.
So we want to get some sort of results.
So if result that we're getting is success right in this in, then we want to do something.
If it's failure to do something, it was error.
Of course we do something else, that's kind of example.
So in this case, here we have the class inam.
You know, our main we can use it by doing the following list create a function actually not in the
main, let's say, outside create a function.
Get.
Result
in this get result, we're going to have a type.
I'm going to say a result and they're going to be a result type.
OK, our resolve to make sure we have our package there.
OK, so what are we going to do in this function?
Well, we are going to return something.
What do we want to return in this case?
The return, when can we use the one expression when a result as result changes?
As a result, it's going to be type of enum class depending on what type we have success, failure error.
We want to show something and you will see that we have this squiggly red line, if you have a over,
is going to say something to the fact one expression must be executed and necessary success failure
error.
So we're going to go ahead and add the else branch first, because that's needed, and then I'm going
to click on one again.
All option.
Enter, we're going to say add remaining branches.
This just helps us to get all of the branches that are needed.
We can type them all out ourselves.
But these I.D. helps us.
Of course, if you're using a different ID or different code editor or if using Kotlin Playground,
you have to type all of these yourself.
OK, so there we go.
Now we have all of the results.
For now, I'm just going to remove the else.
OK, so there we have it, so we have to do here.
That means we have to actually add something for now.
If success, I'm just going to say print l end.
And when I say success
for failure, let's say print and.
Family failure a little bit harsh, but that's OK, and for error, what was a print error?
OK, very upset.
We have all the cases that we need to have.
So on main, we can call first.
We got to say Val, create a variable here and say input.
OK, set that to two result, not error, for instance.
And then I'm going to feed that into or get a result or something to get result in passing our result.
Passing our input like this.
Let's go ahead and run.
OK, so obviously he's going to go ahead and say our right if I change this to a different input, less
a success to run as you will see or as you would expect, this will say success.
Now, in an application, a more robust application, we want to we would want to separate everything
into different pieces, which means we can create a repository because we imagining that we are getting
data from somewhere remotely right.
So we're going to create a repository which is going to be a classic, as the name implies.
It will contain the actual data X-Class I'm going to call repository.
I want to be sure that this class doesn't create too many instances of itself, because the more instances
we create over class, meaning the more objects of that class we have in memory and it can affect performance
in the long run.
So there is a way in Scotland that we can make sure that certain class is not allowed to create many
inserts of itself.
To do that with, say, object, what say object?
And we type in name of the class we want in this case, where the repository then this will tell the
compiler that this is indeed a class repository that is kind of like singleton, meaning we won't be
able to create many instances of it.
So there will only be one instance of repository which makes sense because the idea here is that we
factually data from somewhere as an example, and then we don't have to recreate this repository as
when we want it.
So here I'm going to create a property for this class or a field.
I'm going to use private to say that this vowel here or this, this property cannot be accessed outside
of this class.
Say, and let's say load state or load state is going to be of type result.
OK.
And in the beginning, I'm going to set it to result that failure.
In fact, what I can do, I'm going to add another go back to our Inam here.
I'm going to add another state here called idle, right?
So nothing really is happening.
It's just idle.
OK, so when we do that, of course, and the say result idle and then just put your print idle, OK?
And so that's what we're going to do.
So in our repository, we create a load state variable.
And then we pass the failure from our.
And in this case, actually, we're going to pass the idle, as I said, the first state, OK.
And then we are going to add because we are understanding the were trying to simulate something that
goes infectious data somewhere remotely.
So here I'm going to create another private VAR now because I want to change this.
In fact, let's make this also VAR because we want these to be able to be we want these to be immutable
and I want to say data fetched like this and this.
For now, this is going to be a string and I'm going to make it null to begin with.
Now this is going to be a problem because we must do something to make this Nullarbor.
We have to put the exclamation point that section.
OK, there we go.
So we're making progress here.
Max, I'm going to create a function for you, actually.
But let's start with one and let's say start fetch.
OK, so what is that we want to happen, we want to happen when the fact starts.
Well, when we starting to fetch something, we want to change the states, I'm going to say load state
in this case is going to be equal to load state or actually result.
OK.
And I'll add a new one here, another state called Loading, which means in our Inam, we have to create
that state here loading a such.
OK, so now as a result, loading like this and as it's loading the data variable, they're fetched
at this point, just going to be data like this.
All right.
Because we started fetching, says Loading, would change the state and then we pass some data to our
data fetched property and we can do the same thing for other states.
It's a fun way.
When they finished, fetch this and then I'm going to say load state, I'm going to attach it to result.
Success once we know the result is success, what we can do here, we can say that affect and just give
it, and not because we know that we already got the data like so it's good, so we just go back to
normal.
What happens if there's an error was fun
error.
And if that's the case, I'm just going to say load state and said that will result.
Either error or failure, either one of those work.
I'm going to use error and what we can do again, I can just create another function here just that
will get current state.
OK, this function obviously will return.
Our result.
Type, and I'm just going to return the load.
State said concept here is very simple.
We have a repository that will take care abstract out all of the process that we have of getting information.
We assuming it is information will of this.
Obviously coming from somewhere could be a database could be an API somewhere.
We have no control over.
So now we can use this repository instead of what we did earlier here.
I'm going to get rid of all of this now because we attached to this class repository object to say,
OK, we just want to one instance.
We don't have to instantiate notice that in May now I can just directly say repository, that's that
and then access any functions that we created.
So I'm going to start with start fetch, then I'm going to say, get a result.
Look at this result is waiting for a result.
In this case, I'm going to say a repository again and I'm going to get current state.
Where is this coming from?
Well, if you notice at the bottom here, I have this.
Get current state because as we go through the process here in all this function, we are actually setting
up that state right when we say start fetch.
We set the load state, this this field here to resolve that.
Loading.
And we say that effect is equal to data and so forth.
So when we say get current state, it will get the current state because we are returning the load state,
which has been going through the process here, inciting sort fetch, Phoenix Dispatch and so forth.
So that's why we can't pass that.
To get resolved themselves with salt needs a result tag, which is an enormous point, and we get the
current state.
And voila!
All right.
So I'm going to continue repository again.
And let's see once they finish their also call again, get a result and pass result here.
It's going to be a repository, not get current state repository again.
That error result in the same thing.
And then finally, I can just say get state that final once it gets resolved and pass a result.
OK, so we can stop here.
Let's go ahead and run this and see what's going to happen.
So I'm going to run.
This wall should simulate the process of fetching data and go through all that, so we're able to pull
together a very simple state machine, if you will, because we are controlling this state of a process
of a fictitious process that will allow us to go and fetch something from the internet on API or somewhere
or a database.
It doesn't matter.
Right?
So we start from a state idol and then success error.
But we are passing through this process, these states, as they change.
Build upon this concept at this point we're using in arms.
Next, we're going to look at the shortcomings of using in for such a state management.
So in the next lectures, we will start deciphering internally shortcomings of using enemies as we are
doing here to control this state, as you see here.
It looks great now, but there are some pitfalls that we need to be aware of, and we're going to learn
how to use other tools to fix that.